Welcome back to your machine learning.
A to Z course a super excited to have you back on board.
And today we're kicking off the Support Vector regression intuition super pumped about these tutorials
got some very exciting slides coming up for you.
So what is Support Vector regression.
Well Support Vector regression was invented back in the 90s by Vladimir Von Sponeck and his colleagues
who were working at the Bell Labs at the time.
That was the AT&T Bell Labs.
Now they're not Nokia Bell Labs and a lot of support vector machine and Support Vector regression are
discussed in the demo of Up next book.
The nature of statistical learning 1992 in this course we will be covering both support vector machine
in the part of the course to do classification and Support Vector regression we will be talking about
it here.
And in addition to that we will also be talking about kernel support of extra machine and kernel Support
Vector regression and the kernel trick and many other things like that.
So there is a lot of exciting stories on these topics but for now we're just going to limit ourselves
to support vector regression specifically linear Support Vector regression.
So here we go.
Here we've got two plots and we need that in order to compare SVR to the simple linear regression that'll
really help us understand things.
So here on the left we've got some random plots our random dots.
I'm going to copy them over to the right.
So we know that these are identical there's no tricks involved there's a absolutely identical.
This is absolutely identical set of data.
And let's start with on the left we're going to apply a simple linear regression we've already discussed
what it's like but let's quickly refresh.
So basically we're going to have this line go through the data and how is this line derived.
Well a method called the ordinary least squares method will be applied to find this line and basically
we want to minimize the distance between the this value Y the actual value in the data and y hat.
Basically what it would have been on a trend line we take the difference here where difference here
we square it and we want to minimize that.
That's ordinarily squares method f.
Essentially what we're doing is minimizing the error.
We want to have a line with the minimum error possible so that's that's the intuition behind a simple
regression something we already talked about.
Now how does the support vector regression work.
Well let's have a look on the right.
We've SVR instead of a simple line you'll see a tube and here you have the regression line in the middle
but then there's this tube around and what does this tube do.
Well this tube has a width of epsilon and the width as Bush measured vertically is important and along
this axis not perpendicular to the tube but vertically and this tube itself is called the Epsilon insensitive
2.
And what does that mean.
Well that means that any points in our dataset that fall inside the tube they won't be we'll be disregarding
their error.
So basically this tube think of it as a margin of error that we are allowing our model to have and not
care about any error inside here.
So any discrepancy between or any like distance between this point over here and the line as in like
for instance here we could see let's look at which point is that.
That's 1 2.
This third point you can see the line is even different right.
The results can be different and probably will be different.
So this third point here there is a distance between the line here and we care about this area here.
We don't care about this area because it falls within this Epsilon insensitive tube.
So we're disregarding any kind of errors in here.
And that's kind of the key behind support vector regression and it gives a little bit of movement or
a little bit of buffer to our model.
And at the same time we have points that are outside the Epsilon insensitive tube.
There they are.
And for them we do care about the error.
And here will be measured as the distance between the the point and the tube itself.
So not the trend line but the tube itself.
These distances have names.
They're either see star if the point is below the tube or see if the point is above the tube.
And they're called.
So these values circles like variables.
So it's advocacy star if it's below sea for a star if it's above.
And we do care about the air so we care about these distances and the way we care about it so we're
going to try to avoid formulas that will give additional readings something you can look into further
down at the end of this tutorial.
But just for for completeness sake here is the formula.
So in the case of oil as it was a simple ordinarily squared like that.
Here is a bit more complex.
We're not going to talk about this part of a here but what we're focusing on is this and we can see
that we're minimizing we want these distances said the sum of these distances to be minimal.
Once again there'll be additional reading at the end.
If you'd like to go into it but effectively these points the ones that are outside our tube are dictating
what the tube will look like how the tube will be positioned so the error within the tube is completely
disregarded we don't care about the era unlike in the ordinary square.
So we're giving some kind of buffer of flexibility to our tube Maureen like allowing it to accounting
for some kind of error that we might expect in the data.
It's normal some for there to be error but these ones they are important to us.
And also one final thing.
Why is this a method called Support Vector regression.
Well because effectively these points all of these points outside by any point actually any point on
this plot is a vector can be represented as a vector in this two dimensional space or a multidimensional
space if you have more features.
So in this case is can presented by two dimensional vector so they are all these points of Xs but the
ones that we've highlighted in red the ones outside the tube they're the support vectors because they
are dictating how this tube is great.
So basically they're supporting the structure or formation of this tube and that's why they called support
vectors and that's why this is a support vector regression.
And so there we go that's what it's all about that just important to remember the Epsilon insensitive
tube and that support vector regression just cares about the errors of anything that's lying outside
this tube and to finish off as promised here's the additional reading.
So if you'd like to learn a bit more have a look at Chapter 4 support vector regression in a book called
efficient learning machines theories concepts and implications for engineers and system designed by
Maria to widen the Rahul Hana and here's a link here where it's aggregated on this portal for published
work something you'll notice that it might be a little bit confusing here they say these are potential
support vectors they're referring only to the ones close I've had a look at different literature and
as the literature I prefer is the one that says in this respect is the one that says that the support
vectors are the ones that are outside and they are outside any any basically any point outside the tube
is a support vector so that's how we talk to discuss it inside this tutorial but have a look at this
different nomenclature maybe there'll be a good perspective to have a different view but overall the
first couple of paragraphs describing the whole problem they're very well written I liked how they were
written and I think I can be a valuable addition if you're looking for additional reading so we go that's
a support vector regression hope you enjoy the tutorial and look forward to you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.